When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
And how to unlock all four talisman slots.
Looking for the Elden Ring legendary talisman locations? Talismans are to Elden Ring, what rings were to Dark Souls, granting you a variety of boons and effects. A lot of these new rings actually have exactly the same effect as many of the regular rings in Dark Souls, except these talismans have also taken a leaf out of Bloodborne's book: they boost specific attack types to complement your playstyle.
You'll start with a single talisman slot, but after you defeat various bosses, you'll be able to wear more of them and equip multiple of the same types of talisman to stack various damage buffs. Here's a quick guide to getting more talisman slots, along with the locations of all eight legendary talismans and some of the other best talismans you can snag earlier in your game.
You can unlock a total of four talisman slots in Elden Ring. You start with one, and earn the other three by:
Check out our Elden Ring bosses guide (opens in new tab) if you want to know where to find them, along with tips on how to beat them.

The +2 version of Ertree's Favor is one of the Legendary Talismans down below, but this initial version is much easier to pick up early in your game. If you're particularly brave, you can grab it immediately after starting if you choose a Stonesword Key as your starting keepsake. This talisman is a great way to get an all around buff for melee players pretty early into the game.
This is a good early talisman choice for those with high dexterity builds relying on critical hits. Use fewer health flasks by remaining some HP while dealing damage. You will have to beat a boss to grab this one, but Stormhill is accessible right from the start of your game so it will be waiting when you're ready.
The Spelldrake Talisman is another very nice all-round buff, protecting you from all types of magical damage. The Weeping Peninsula is a bit higher level area than Limgrave's starting zones, but it's another easy destination early in your game.
From The Four Belfries Site of Grace on the west half of Liurnia, head a short distance southeast to the teleporting stone which will take you to Farum Azula. Proceed down and north through the floating ruins to snag the Pearldrake Talisman off a dead body. If you're quick, you can avoid a couple enemies in Farum Azula to pick it up.
The Pearldrake Talisman protects against all types of non-physical damage, as opposed to the Firedrake Talisman or Boltdrake Talisman which only protect against fire or lightning damage respectively. 
For the magic users, or those who really enjoy their melee skills, the Carian Filigree talisman reduces the FP cost on all skills. This one takes a bit longer to find, as you'll complete Blaidd's quest to do it, but worth it.
Like the Assassin's Crimson Dagger talisman, the Rotten Winged Sword is a boon for melee players with fast attacks. This is another that you can't grab immediately, so don't forget about it as you approach late game areas.
Another late game talisman, the Godskin Swaddling Cloth is very powerful for players with fast weapons. You'll need to fight a boss at the end of a dungeon in Mountaintops of the Giants, so add it to your to-do list for later in the game.

There are eight legendary talismans in Elden Ring, all of which have pretty special effects. You'll need to be pretty close to the end of the game to actually grab them all, but some are easier to grab than others. We've started with some of the easier ones, like Radagon's Icon which can be snatched without hassle from the Raya Lucaria Academy. Lower on the list are the more difficult talismans that you'll be able to find later in the game.
From the Debate Parlor Site of Grace, leave through the main door and jump over the railing on the east side of the building. Climb an exterior ladder leading to the second floor and enter via a broken window to find the talisman inside a treasure chest.
Starting from the Fort Faroth Site of Grace, enter the fort through the front stairs and head to the left to climb a ladder in a room with one torch in front. Jump down onto the roof beneath the tower and head for the second hole in the floor southwest of you. In the room below, make a tight clockwise spiral, jumping diagonally across a platform to land just behind the ladder you took into this room. Evade two rats and drop down into a small dead-end area where you'll find the soreseal.
South of the Altus Highway Junction Site of Grace, enter the Golden Lineage Evergaol with a Stonesword Key. Defeat Godefroy the Grafted to earn the Godfrey Icon.
You'll need to have completed parts of the Ranni Quest to get access to Ranni's Rise and Nokstella. From the Nokstella, Eternal City Site of Grace, head west up several flights of stairs to the western edge of the city. The chest with the Moon of Nokstella is guarded by three enemies in a cathedral at the highest point in the city.
From the Drainage Channel Site of Grace, head outside by the east exit. Once outside, head north using the tree roots and rooftops. Stick close to the building as you approach the other end of this open area, climb another root, and look for a small hole in one of the roofs. Drop into this room and land on the rafters. Below you on the left will be a chest guarded by several enemies with the Dragoncrest Greatshield talisman inside.
From the Prayer Room Site of Grace, head out the northeast exit. You'll need to carefully make your way down by jumping to the lowest outdoor area between the ramparts you're currently on and the outer wall. Once down, head for the small arched doorway on the south end of this area and open it with a Stonesword key to grab Marika's Soreseal from a candle brazier inside.
From the Beside the Great Bridge Site of Grace, head up the stairs to the left outside, and then take a left once you've reached the top. Northeast of you is a tower with a rounded top with the Old Lord's Talisman inside. Head through the building north of you and down a ladder to reach the tower.
From the Forbidden Lands Site of Grace, head inside and take the elevator to the top floor. Head all the way west until you reach another elevator and take this one down. You'll fight two huge monsters in the courtyard below and grab the talisman from the south end of the room afterwards.
Elden Ring guide: Conquer the Lands Between
Elden Ring dungeons: How to defeat them
Elden Ring paintings: Solutions and locations
Elden Ring map fragments: Reveal the world
Elden Ring co-op: How to squad up online
Sign up to get the best content of the week, and great gaming deals, as picked by the editors.
Sean's first PC games were Full Throttle and Total Annihilation and his taste has stayed much the same since. When not scouring games for secrets or bashing his head against puzzles, you'll find him revisiting old Total War campaigns, agonizing over his Destiny 2 fit, or still trying to finish the Horus Heresy. Sean has also written for EDGE, Eurogamer, PCGamesN, Wireframe, EGMNOW, and Inverse.
PC Gamer is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site (opens in new tab).
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 
