When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
This handy tool lets you drum up support in the most challenging of fights.
One of the coolest new features in FromSoftware's new open-world epic is being able to summon NPCs and friendly monsters using the Elden Ring Spirit Calling Bell. To use it you'll need to gather Spirit Ashes (opens in new tab), which you can find throughout the world. It's quite easy to miss the Spirit Calling Bell if you're not careful, though, so in this guide, we'll cover how to get it.

To get the Spirit Calling Bell, head to the Church or Elleh site of grace, which can be found north of the Stranded Graveyard as soon as you enter the main world. From there, head east up the main road and you'll eventually reach the Gatefront Ruins, which has a site of grace on either side. Take a rest at either of these sites and Melina (opens in new tab) will appear to you.
Melina will offer you a request in exchange for your horse, Torrent, which you must accept. Head back to the Church of Elleh, using the site of grace to advance to nighttime. When you get up, an NPC will appear and beckon you over.
This NPC is the witch, Renna. Have a chat with her and she'll give you the Spirit Calling Bell and Lone Wolf Ashes. You can say no, but you'll receive it no matter what you say to her, so it's fine to speed things up by agreeing. Once the conversation is done and you have the bell, equip summoning ashes as a consumable. You can only use them in certain areas filled with enemies and they'll cost you FP like every other spell.
If you don't grab the Spirit Calling Bell from Renna, she will eventually stop appearing at the Church of Elleh, but after that point, you can buy the bell and the Lone Wolf Ashes from the Twin Maiden Husks in the Roundtable Hold once Melina gives you access.
Elden Ring guide: Conquer the Lands Between
Elden Ring bosses: How to beat them
Elden Ring dungeons: How to defeat them
Sign up to get the best content of the week, and great gaming deals, as picked by the editors.
The first three games Lauren played on PC were Star Wars: X-Wing, Zoo Tycoon and Barbie Fashion Designer, which explains her love of all things space, strategy and aesthetically pleasing. Lauren recently took over as PC Gamer's Guides Editor after three years of writing many dozens of Destiny 2 guides at VG247, as well as casually trying to shoehorn in The Witcher 3 articles wherever possible. When she's not trying to force everyone to play as a Warlock in Destiny 2, Lauren is either mastering her SEO abilities to help smash the competition, or patting one of her red sons.
PC Gamer is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site (opens in new tab).
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 
