When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
Strengthen yourself for the journey ahead.
Wondering where to find Melina so you can level up in Elden Ring? If you're a Souls veteran, the process to increase your stats in the Lands Between is pretty much the same as the other games. It might be a little confusing for newcomers, however, especially as you don't get the option to spend your Runes straight away. 
You have a lot of freedom to explore, so it's possible that you might miss Elden Ring Melina at first. Venturing into dungeons or taking on enemies in the open world is fine, but a point will come where you want to spend some of your Runes on strengthening your stats. In this guide, I'll explain where to find Melina so you can level up in Elden Ring as well as how to get her to show up for a specific ending (opens in new tab). 
Melina is the mysterious NPC that uses the runes you've accumulated through killing enemies to grant you power. If you're just starting out and she hasn't appeared yet, don't worry—you need to visit and rest at three Sites of Grace in the open world before she shows up. This doesn't include those you discover in dungeons, so you're likely to come across her at either Agheel Lake North or the Gatefront Sites of Grace. 
After you meet her for the first time, you should pay attention whenever you rest at a Site of Grace as she has quite a bit of extra dialogue that can give more context to what's going on in the Lands Between. Keep an eye out for the "Talk to Melina" option in the Site of Grace menu. 
When she first appears, Melina will offer you the Spectral Steed Whistle, allowing you to summon Torrent, your Elden Ring mount (opens in new tab). From this point, whenever you rest at a Site of Grace, you have the option of leveling up. It's also worth noting that you will have the option to accept or refuse Melina's offer during this first encounter. You might as well accept her bargain as refusing her just means you can change your mind at any future Site of Grace you visit.
Runes you've collected can be turned into attribute points, providing you have enough, and each time you do this, your character gains a level. Each subsequent level or attribute upgrade requires more runes to unlock. 
Naturally you should spend runes in a way that works with your weapon and the overall build you have in mind. While it's possible to respec in Elden Ring (opens in new tab), this option won't be available until a little later on. 

Melina will grant you access to Roundtable Hold once you get a little further into the game. I've always found she appears when resting at the Castleward Tunnel Site of Grace, immediately before Margit's boss room, though she usually only appears once I've died to him once and respawned there.
She will also appear and offer access to Roundtable Hold if you rest at a Site of Grace outside of the Limgrave or Weeping Peninsula.
There's only one requirement to get the Frenzied Flame ending and you can even do this after you've fought and defeated the final boss. But if you want the cutscene where Melina shows up, you need to start planning for it a little earlier in the game.
Basically, you need to head through the Frenzied Flame doors, deep beneath Leyndell before you reach the Giant's Forge in the Mountaintops of the Giants. You need to defeat Mogh, the Omen in the Subterranean Shunning Grounds then make your way down the deep shaft where you find all the merchants gathered. Once at the bottom, you can enter the gruesome-looking doors by removing all your armor. Once you've accepted the Frenzied Flame, you'll be able to choose that option at the end of the game, instead of using a Mending Rune.
The only difference in whether or not Melina will show up is basically who ignites the Giant's Flame once you've defeated the Fire Giant boss. If Melina has already fulfilled her role as the Kindling Maiden, she won't show up in the final cutscene. But if you've already taken the Frenzied Flame by the time you reach the forge, you'll be able to do it yourself.
One last thing to be aware of is that once you take the Frenzied Flame, Melina will leave you. You'll still be able to level up, she just won't show up at any Sites of Grace beyond that point.
Elden Ring guide: Conquer the Lands Between
Elden Ring bosses: How to beat them
Elden Ring dungeons: How to defeat them
Elden Ring paintings: Solutions and locations
Elden Ring map fragments: Reveal the world
Elden Ring co-op: How to squad up online
Sign up to get the best content of the week, and great gaming deals, as picked by the editors.
Sarah started as a freelance writer in 2018, writing for PCGamesN, TechRadar, GamingBible, Red Bull Gaming and more. In 2021, she was offered a full-time position on the PC Gamer team where she takes every possible opportunity to talk about World of Warcraft and Elden Ring. When not writing guides, most of her spare time is spent in Azeroth—though she's quite partial to JRPGs too. One of her fondest hopes is to one day play through the ending of Final Fantasy X without breaking down into a sobbing heap. She probably has more wolves in Valheim than you.
PC Gamer is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site (opens in new tab).
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 
