When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
Crafting tips and where to find Elden Ring's various Cookbooks.
Like many open-world games, Elden Ring has crafting. You're going to want to know how to make your own Elden Ring weapons (opens in new tab), poison darts, and snacks for Torrent (opens in new tab) on the road, after all. And thankfully, getting into crafting is pretty simple. All you're going to need is an Elden Ring Crafting Kit and then the various Cookbooks dotted around the world. Your trusty steed won't want for anything ever again when you're done.
First, get used to picking up materials wherever you see them. From the very beginning of the game, you're going to see lots of flowers, mushrooms, and odd shiny objects to pick up. Get in the habit of picking up everything you see: you never know what you may need later on. 
This guide shows all the Elden Ring Cookbooks I've found so far and their locations. I'll be updating this list as we discover more. 

You can do this really early on. After exiting the Cave of Knowledge, you'll find The First Step Site of Grace. Travel north and you'll see a dilapidated building, containing the Church of Elleh. Here you'll find the very first merchant of the game, who offers the kit for 300 runes. You should also purchase the Nomadic Warrior's and the Missionary Cookbooks. 

Head into your menu and you'll find an "Item Crafting" option. You can create items on the go. Handy. 

Nomadic Warrior's Cookbook 1: Church of Elleh merchant
Nomadic Warrior's Cookbook 2: Church of Elleh merchant
Nomadic Warrior's Cookbook 3: Saintsbridge merchant
Nomadic Warrior's Cookbook 4: On a corpse in Mistwood, near the Siofra River Well (opens in new tab)
Nomadic Warrior's Cookbook 6: Fort Haight, in a chest in a room at the top of the main stairs
Nomadic Warrior's Cookbook 7: Just north of the Stormveil Castle entrance is a broken bridge, on a corpse at the end of it
Nomadic Warrior's Cookbook 11: Liurnia Lake Shore Merchant 
Nomadic Warrior's Cookbook 14: Smouldering Church Site of Grace
Nomadic Warrior's Cookbook 15: Mechant outside of Caelid Castle gates

 Missionary's Cookbook 1: Church of Elleh merchant
Missionary's Cookbook 3: Smouldering Church Site of Grace

Glintstone Craftman's Cookbook 1: In Schoolhouse Classroom Site of Grace (in a northwest graveyard), dropped by a noble
Glintstone Craftman's Cookbook 2: TBA

Fevor's Cookbook 1: TBA

Armorer's Cookbook 1: In a camp southeast of Gatefront Ruins
Armorer's Cookbook 2: Coastal Cave merchant
Armorer's Cookbook 3: Merchant southeast of Mistwood Ruins
Armorer's Cookbook 4: TBA
Armorer's Cookbook 5: TBA
Armorer's Cookbook 7: TBA
Elden Ring guide: Conquer the Lands Between
Elden Ring bosses: How to beat them
Elden Ring dungeons: How to defeat them
Elden Ring paintings: Solutions and locations
Elden Ring map fragments: Reveal the world
Elden Ring co-op: How to squad up online
Sign up to get the best content of the week, and great gaming deals, as picked by the editors.
Imogen has been playing games for as long as she can remember but finally decided games were her passion when she got her hands on Portal 2. Ever since then she’s bounced between hero shooters, RPGs, and indies looking for her next fixation, searching for great puzzles or a sniper build to master. When she’s not working for PC Gamer, she’s entertaining her community live on Twitch, hosting an event like GDC, or in a field shooting her Olympic recurve bow.
PC Gamer is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site (opens in new tab).
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 
