When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
Reallocate your character's attributes without starting again.

Elden Ring guide (opens in new tab): Conquer the Lands Between
Elden Ring bosses (opens in new tab): How to beat them
Elden Ring dungeons (opens in new tab): How to defeat them
Elden Ring Ranni quest (opens in new tab): What to do
Elden Ring map fragments (opens in new tab): Reveal the world
If you haven't learned how to respec your character in Elden Ring yet, you should really give it a shot. Respeccing is an easy, relatively low-cost way to completely reallocate all of your stats, letting you transform from a dextrous weakling to a beefy barbarian with a single menu. The feature has existed in previous Souls games, but it's been a somewhat confusing process in the past.
Thankfully, Elden Ring's respec is pretty simple, and utilizing it becomes more important as you face some of the late-game Elden Ring bosses (opens in new tab). Or you might want to respec just to try out any number of the cool weapons or armor sets you find littered throughout the Lands Between. In this Elden Ring respec guide, I'll explain how to do it, and where to find the item you need.
To unlock the ability to respec, there are two things you need to do: 
After you defeat Rennala you'll be able to interact with her and choose the "rebirth" option. This is where the Larval Tear comes in, and you'll pay one of these items each time you want to reallocate. Luckily there's no shortage. You just need to know where to look.
Allocating upgrade points in Elden Ring is a pretty major decision, because whatever you decide to focus on, you really should specialize in something. The way that armor and weapons scale means that your points are best spent on the one or two stats that compliment them. That said, priorities can quickly shift when you find a cool new weapon or encounter an impossibly hard boss. Here are a few scenarios where it makes sense to respec:

When you find a really cool weapon that you can't use...
This is a great use of a Larval Tear, but you should make sure that you really like the weapon first. I spent my first 30 hours pouring everything I had into Vigor and scaling my two Uchigatanas with Dexterity. Then I found the Moonveil Katana, which requires a whopping 23 Intelligence to even use. After mulling it over and watching some gameplay with it, I decided it was worth cashing in the tear.
When a hard boss fight calls for different stats...
Elden Ring makes it pretty easy to choose whatever armor/weapon you like best a develop a build for it, but sometimes a boss fight will just completely counter it. If you primarly swing a fire sword, it won't do you much good against the Volcano Manor's God-Devouring Serpent, for example.
An earlier fight that you should look out for is Starscourge Radahn in Caelid. It's one of the first major skill checks of the game, and going into it with a mediocre health pool puts you at risk of dying to a single attack. We recommend having at least 30 Vigor (opens in new tab) by the time you fight him, and if you don't, then it might be time to cash in a Larval Tear.

The easiest place to get a Larval Tear early on is in the Village of the Albanaurics in the south of Liurnia, in a big cave set into the lake cliffside. Head in here and up into the village itself. Once you've passed Nepheli, you should come to a place with lots of enemies located around some stone sarcophagi. The tear is lootable on a body there.
Later in the game, you start finding more of them by defeating some well-hidden enemies, buying them from merchants, or destroying a few particularly annoying sentient boulders.
Here's a (likely incomplete) list of Larval Tears we've found and more discovered by the Fextralife Elden Ring wiki (opens in new tab):
Limgrave, Liurnia, and Caelid Larval Tears
Underground Larval Tears
Later game Larval Tears
Sign up to get the best content of the week, and great gaming deals, as picked by the editors.
Sean's first PC games were Full Throttle and Total Annihilation and his taste has stayed much the same since. When not scouring games for secrets or bashing his head against puzzles, you'll find him revisiting old Total War campaigns, agonizing over his Destiny 2 fit, or still trying to finish the Horus Heresy. Sean has also written for EDGE, Eurogamer, PCGamesN, Wireframe, EGMNOW, and Inverse.
PC Gamer is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site (opens in new tab).
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 
