When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
From keepsakes to origins, here's how to create your Elden Ring character.

Elden Ring guide (opens in new tab): Conquer the Lands Between
Elden Ring bosses (opens in new tab): How to beat them
Elden Ring dungeons (opens in new tab): How to defeat them
Elden Ring paintings (opens in new tab): Solutions and locations
Elden Ring map fragments (opens in new tab): Reveal the world
The Elden Ring character creation process is comprehensive, to say the least. Sure, you can choose the standard archetypes if you just want to get playing, but you could be staring at this person for the next 100 hours, so it's worth taking your time. You may not be interested in tweaking eyelashes and scars, but character creation has always been one of the best roleplay elements in the Souls games. That, and creating an utter monstrosity your foes will look upon, and despair. 
Returning Souls players will be happy to hear that the infamous "Similar Face" button still exists, and lets you distort your character's likeness in unsettling ways. But looks aren't everything: you can also choose a starting gift called a "keepsake" to level the playing field.
In this Elden Ring character creation guide, I'll run through the process of making a character, so you can create a Tarnished worthy of your first foray into the Lands Between.
The character creation process in Elden Ring is unsurprisingly similar to other Souls games. You can choose the various aspects of your character, including name, age, and (very detailed) appearance. The base template option lets you choose from several presets, and you can fine-tune—to a certain extent, at least—aspects of your character, like voice, skin colour, face, and hair.
While many of the options in Elden Ring's character creator are purely cosmetic, a couple of choices should be given more attention. I'll go over these below:
When you first fire up a new game, you're presented with ten classes—or "origins"—to choose from, each gives your character different base stats and starting level. This choice also determines the weapons with which you'll start the game. 
The classes are:
I've broken down the details in our Elden Ring classes guide (opens in new tab) if you're still having trouble choosing between them. Don't panic, though; you can change your mind before finalising your character.

Once you've settled on a class, you're prompted to pick a body type before moving to the more traditional Souls character creation screen. This is where you can fill in the rest of your character's details and where you get to pick your keepsake.
These items are similar to Dark Souls' Life Ring or Estus Shard. They mostly offer you a boon, such as increased health or damage reduction, to help you survive. That said, there's one that appears to increase enemies' aggro range, so make sure you pick carefully.
The keepsakes are:
You can find more info on these starter gifts in our Elden Ring keepsakes guide (opens in new tab), where we break down what we know about each of these items.
Sign up to get the best content of the week, and great gaming deals, as picked by the editors.
Sarah started as a freelance writer in 2018, writing for PCGamesN, TechRadar, GamingBible, Red Bull Gaming and more. In 2021, she was offered a full-time position on the PC Gamer team where she takes every possible opportunity to talk about World of Warcraft and Elden Ring. When not writing guides, most of her spare time is spent in Azeroth—though she's quite partial to JRPGs too. One of her fondest hopes is to one day play through the ending of Final Fantasy X without breaking down into a sobbing heap. She probably has more wolves in Valheim than you.
PC Gamer is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site (opens in new tab).
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 
